support/index.md, before:

---
title: "Support"
---

## Bugzilla Support Options

The options described here are for installation, administration, and
customization support for Bugzilla server software. If you are an
end-user of a Bugzilla, please consult the support options made
available by that Bugzilla's owner.

## Where to Ask Questions

  - **[support-list at bugzilla.org](https://lists.bugzilla.org/listinfo/support-list)** -
    This mailing list is for Bugzilla users and administrators of Bugzilla sites 
    to ask for help or share information. You will need to subscribe to the list
    first before you can post to it, but you can unsubscribe easily once your
    question is answered if continuing to read the list isn't your thing.
  - **[#bugzilla](https://web.libera.chat/#bugzilla)** on Libera.chat -
    Most of the Bugzilla developers are on this IRC channel. If you come here
    for help, please stick around and wait for an answer. We aren't ignoring you,
    but there are a lot of time zones on this planet, and not everyone is awake
    or at their computer all the time. It's not uncommon for a question to get
    answered 5 or 6 hours later when the person answering gets out of bed in
    their home time zone.  This IRC channel is also mirrored to Matrix, so if
    you prefer Matrix, see below. We are no longer actively monitoring the #bugzilla
    channel on Freenode, as the new network management decided to ban the access
    method most of the Bugzilla developers use to connect to it.
  - **[#bugzilla:mozilla.org](https://matrix.to/#/#bugzilla:mozilla.org)**
    on Matrix - this is a mirror of the #bugzilla IRC channel, and any traffic
    in either place will be seen in both. So if you like Matrix better than IRC
    you can use this to talk to the same people.

## Private Emails Do Not Help Others

If you mail one of the Bugzilla developers directly with a support question,
you're likely to be ignored. This doesn't mean that we don't want to help you out,
on the contrary, we very much want to see you succeed in using Bugzilla. Quite
simply, providing tech support takes the developers' time away from fixing bugs.
Most of them don't mind helping once in a while, but if everyone emails them,
well, you can see where that would go. There are other knowledgeable users and
administrators of Bugzilla, who are very familiar with it and enjoy spending time
helping people with it, and read and reply to the support mailing list. Some of the
developers help out there, too, when they have time. Thus we provide our general
support on the mailing list mentioned above, where lots of people have a chance to
answer your question (because you never know who knows the answer), and the
questions and answers get archived and can be used by future Bugzilla admins at
their leisure from a search engine. We'll also try to help you out on the IRC
or Matrix channels (see above) when possible.

## Commercial Support

Bugzilla is a community supported project. This means we don't directly
offer any commercial support, but rather provide the public forums
listed above where you can get assistance. If you're still looking for
commercial support for Bugzilla, however, you might try one of these
[consultants](consulting.html) who have offered their services.

Commit message:

Remove email address from support list, make them click through.

support/index.md, after:

---
title: "Support"
---

## Bugzilla Support Options

The options described here are for installation, administration, and
customization support for Bugzilla server software. If you are an
end-user of a Bugzilla, please consult the support options made
available by that Bugzilla's owner.

## Where to Ask Questions

### By Email
  - **[Bugzilla Support Mailing List](https://lists.bugzilla.org/listinfo/support-list)** -
    This mailing list is for Bugzilla users and administrators of Bugzilla sites
    to ask for help or share information. You will need to subscribe to the list
    first before you can post to it, and you will need to remain subscribed until
    your question is answered if you want ot see the reply, since replies will
    also go to the list. You can unsubscribe easily once your question is
    answered if continuing to read the list isn't your thing.

### Chat Rooms
  - **[#bugzilla](https://web.libera.chat/#bugzilla)** on Libera.chat -
    Most of the Bugzilla developers are on this IRC channel. If you come here
    for help, please stick around and wait for an answer. We aren't ignoring you,
    but there are a lot of time zones on this planet, and not everyone is awake
    or at their computer all the time. It's not uncommon for a question to get
    answered 5 or 6 hours later when the person answering gets out of bed in
    their home time zone.  This IRC channel is also mirrored to Matrix, so if
    you prefer Matrix, see below. We are no longer actively monitoring the #bugzilla
    channel on Freenode, as the new network management decided to ban the access
    method most of the Bugzilla developers use to connect to it.
  - **[#bugzilla:mozilla.org](https://matrix.to/#/#bugzilla:mozilla.org)**
    on Matrix - this is a mirror of the #bugzilla IRC channel, and any traffic
    in either place will be seen in both. So if you like Matrix better than IRC
    you can use this to talk to the same people.

## Private Emails Do Not Help Others

If you mail one of the Bugzilla developers directly with a support question,
you're likely to be ignored. This doesn't mean that we don't want to help you out,
on the contrary, we very much want to see you succeed in using Bugzilla. Quite
simply, providing tech support takes the developers' time away from fixing bugs.
Most of them don't mind helping once in a while, but if everyone emails them,
well, you can see where that would go. There are other knowledgeable users and
administrators of Bugzilla, who are very familiar with it and enjoy spending time
helping people with it, and read and reply to the support mailing list. Some of the
developers help out there, too, when they have time. Thus we provide our general
support on the mailing list mentioned above, where lots of people have a chance to
answer your question (because you never know who knows the answer), and the
questions and answers get archived and can be used by future Bugzilla admins at
their leisure from a search engine. We'll also try to help you out on the IRC
or Matrix channels (see above) when possible.

## Commercial Support

Bugzilla is a community supported project. This means we don't directly
offer any commercial support, but rather provide the public forums
listed above where you can get assistance. If you're still looking for
commercial support for Bugzilla, however, you might try one of these
[consultants](consulting.html) who have offered their services.
