---
title: Release of Bugzilla 3.4.3, 3.0.10, and 3.5.1
date: 2009-11-05
author: ["mkanat"]
categories:
- Releases
---
Here we are in our new home on wordpress.com\! This should be generally
easier to keep up with and is a better, more "official" place than my
personal blog. As of now, the Bugzilla "Status Update" page is dead and
this is the official location of Bugzilla status updates.

For the first post on the new blog, I've released
[Bugzilla 3.4.3](http://www.bugzilla.org/releases/3.4.3/),
[Bugzilla 3.0.10](http://www.bugzilla.org/releases/3.0.10/) and
[Bugzilla 3.5.1](http://www.bugzilla.org/releases/3.6/). The [Release
Announcement](http://www.bugzilla.org/news/#release343) has all the
details about the two stable releases. What we're going to cover in this
update is 3.5.1, our development release, which has a ton of new
features and major improvements.

I'm only going to cover things that are new since our last Bugzilla
Update, so if you want to know the whole history of Bugzilla 3.5 (what
will become 3.6), read the [prior updates about Bugzilla
3.5](/tag/3.6/).

**Bugzilla 3.5.1**

I'd like to remind everybody that 3.5.1 is *unstable*. It had little to
no testing at all, so shouldn't be used in a production environment. You
should test it out and report bugs or make suggestions, though\! Now is
the time to suggest changes in our major new features. By the time we
get to the Release Candidate stage, it's often too late to make major
changes\! So if you want any major changes to how things work in 3.5.1,
let us know soon\!

**The Bugzilla Migration Framework**

One of the biggest new features in 3.5.1 is `migrate.pl`, a script that
allows easy migration from a different bug-tracking system to Bugzilla.

The exciting news is that this makes it very easy to write new migrators
to migrate from any bug-tracking system to Bugzilla.

Also, this makes migration a first-class part of Bugzilla, not part of
`contrib/`. This means that we will maintain the migration framework,
and the migrators themselves, and if they break, that's a regression.

The first migrator implemented is for GNATS. The code is in
`Bugzilla/Migrate/GNATS.pm`, if you want to see what a migrator looks
like.

The migration framework has the following features:

1.  It is non-destructive. You can migrate into an existing Bugzilla
    installation\!
2.  It's relatively easy to implement new migrators for systems.
    Basically all you have to do is provide arrays of hashes describing
    the products, users, and bugs in your bug-tracker, and
    Bugzilla::Migrate does the rest of the work. It even contains a
    facility to translate values from the old bug-tracker to Bugzilla,
    and allows the end user to specify how that translation should work.
3.  It is capable of doing a "dry-run" of your migration, so that you
    can see if everything is going to go well before actually committing
    anything to the database.

We would love to see new systems implemented to migrate from\! The
review requirements for new migrators are slightly relaxed--we will
believe you when you say that they work, as long as they are coded well
and follow the Bugzilla Developers' Guide.

Also, if anybody wants to provide me (or the Bugzilla project in
general) a dump of a large working installation of a bug-tracker, that
will also help people who want to write a migrator.

Finally, this makes it much easier for consultants to write migrators,
so if you were thinking of hiring a [Bugzilla
Consultant](http://www.bugzilla.org/support/consulting.html) to help you
migrate to Bugzilla, now is an ideal time\!

**Improvements in 3.5.1 for Administrators**

  - The default priority values are now human-readable words instead of
    P1, P2, etc.
  - I spent a lot of time making `checksetup.pl`
    faster at updating Bugzillas, particularly older Bugzillas. If you
    wanted to upgrade in the past, but you were worried that running
    checksetup.pl would cause too much downtime, I'd suggest trying an
    upgrade to 3.5.1 and see how it goes.
  - `checksetup.pl` now displays important
    messages in red.
  - The code that optionally converted BMPs to PNGs has been made into
    an extension, and is disabled by default. If you want to enable it,
    delete extensions/bmp\_convert/disabled and run
    `checksetup.pl`. In the future, this
    extension will be removed from Bugzilla and shipped separately.
  - `checksetup.pl` now displays warnings when it
    fails to fix permissions on files, and dies with an error if it
    fails to create a directory.
  - `checksetup.pl` no longer dies when it cannot
    delete the `data/template` directory--instead
    it moves the directory out of the way.
  - `duplicates.cgi` now gets all of its
    information directly from the database, meaning that it no longer
    stores huge numbers of files in the `data/`
    directory, and no longer requires that
    `collectstats.pl` be run nightly in order for
    it to work.
  - ssl options are simpler--there is now a parameter called
    `ssl\_redirect` which, if on, will always
    redirect users to the SSL version of your Bugzilla.
  - The `loginnetmask` parameter has been
    removed. Users are always allowed to use their cookie from any IP
    address, unless they choose to restrict it to their IP address when
    they log in.
  - `email\_in.pl` now runs in taint mode for
    increased security.

**Improvements in 3.5.1 for Users**

  - There are now arrows on the bug list which indicate what direction
    each column is currently sorting in.
  - There is no longer a maximum length for passwords.
  - request.cgi now groups the Product drop-down by Classification, if
    you are using Classifications.
  - Users are now automatically logged in after changing their password.
  - You can now load a saved search as the search for a New Charts
    series.
  - You can now see flags on a bug as part of search results.
  - Dependency Graph arrows now go the other direction, which seems to
    make more sense.
  - When creating an attachment, you will now be warned via a popup if
    you attempt to submit it without a description (instead of only
    being warned with an error after submitting the attachment).
  - You can now make comments on attachments even if you can't edit
    their properties.
  - Links are now more visible, in the Dusk skin.
  - If you are logged out or don't have permissions to edit the
    properties of attachments, you will now get a read-only page when
    viewing an attachment's details.
  - If a user in the "insider group" adds a private comment and also
    makes public changes, an email about those public changes will now
    be sent to users who can see them. (In the past, adding a private
    comment entirely prevented email to users who were not in the
    "insider group".)

**Improvements in 3.5.1 for Customizers and Extension Authors**

  - There is now a `$bug-\>set\_flags` and
    `$attachment-\>set\_flags`, which are used to
    create and update flags on bugs and attachments.
  - Bugzilla::Template::quoteUrls now has a hook that should be pretty
    easy to use, if you want to adjust how Bugzilla highlights comments.
    (The hook is `bug-format\_comment`.)
  - There is now a hook for `page.cgi`, which
    allows extensions to add their own new pages to Bugzilla.
  - You can now use `Bugzilla-\>feature` to
    detect if the modules for a certain feature are installed, instead
    of having to attempt to load those modules yourself.
  - The `bug/show.html.tmpl` template now
    requires far fewer variables in order to display it.
  - There is now a hook that allows you to modify an attachment's data
    before it goes into the database.
  - Hooks can now call `exit` safely under
    mod\_perl.
  - There is now a `template-before\_process`
    hook which allows you to modify variables before $template-\>process
    is called. It will be improved before Bugzilla 3.6 is released to
    allow for modifying variables before any template is ever loaded..
  - There are many other new hooks.
  - There is now a basic infrastructure in place that will allow
    localizers to translate field values for every field on display.

**Upcoming Improvements For Bugzilla 3.6**

There is a lot of exciting stuff on the horizon for Bugzilla 3.6, with
patches written and awaiting review before they become an official part
of Bugzilla:

  - Adding attachments to a bug by email (via
    `email\_in.pl`).
  - *Tons* of new hooks. Extensions are becoming very powerful.
  - QuickSearch is becoming simplified and improved, and getting new
    documentation. It will be merged into the Simple Search page, as
    well.
  - WebService clients will be able to authenticate by passing the
    arguments `Bugzilla\_login` and
    `Bugzilla\_password` to any method.
  - The default statuses and status workflow are going to change, based
    on 10 years of Bugzilla experience.
  - Some UI improvements for the bug editing page are on the way.
  - The WebService will respect taint mode, for improved security.
  - You will be able to specify groups for a bug when creating it via
    `email\_in.pl` or the
    `Bug.create` WebService function.
  - There is going to be a `Bugzilla::Comment`
    object in the code to assist with loading and creating comments.
  - Users who fail to guess a password too many times will be locked out
    of their account for a certain amount of time.

Also, we expect Bugzilla 3.8 (but not Bugzilla 3.6) to support MS-SQL
Server as a backend database.

**Whew\!**

That was quite a Bugzilla Update\! As you can see, the Bugzilla team is
busier and more productive than ever, working to make you a better
bug-tracker\! One thing we always need, though, are more contributors\!
See our [Contribute Page](http://www.bugzilla.org/contribute/) for more
details on all the ways you can help out Bugzilla--you don't just have
to be a programmer\!

Until next time, happy bug-tracking\!
