---
title: Release of Bugzilla 3.2.7, 3.4.7, 3.6.1, and 3.7.1
date: 2010-06-24
author: ["mkanat"]
---
So, today we had a [bunch of
releases](http://www.bugzilla.org/news/2010/06/24/release-of-bugzilla-3.2.7-3.4.7-3.6.1-and-3.7.1).
They are good. They fix stuff\! Fixed stuff is good. :-)

Now, I could pretty much end the blog post there, but there is
one...tiny...extra...thing to talk about. If you were paying attention,
you might have noticed that the 3.7.1 release says that it's leading up
to **Bugzilla 4.0**\! Yes, that's right, the next major release of
Bugzilla will be 4.0, and here's a bit about it:

### Why 4.0?

So what is it that makes this release worthy of being called 4.0? Well,
the biggest thing is that there have been *major* UI improvements. The
biggest one is that the Advanced Search page has been fully redesigned.
You can see it at our [test
site](http://landfill.bugzilla.org/bugzilla-tip/query.cgi?format=advanced).
It's going to get better than that, too. Also, if you review a lot of
patches, you will probably appreciate the new [attachment details
UI](https://landfill.bugzilla.org/bugzilla-tip/attachment.cgi?id=3&action=edit)
(log in to see the full feature set).

Bugzilla 4.0 will also have cross-domain WebServices support, via
[JSONP](http://bob.pythonmac.org/archives/2005/12/05/remote-json-jsonp/).
As a part of that, the JSON-RPC WebServices interface can also now be
accessed using HTTP GET and a simple query string in the URL, instead of
having to POST a JSON object.

Also in the area of WebServices, we're planning to have our
most-requested WebService function implemented, `Bug.update`, so that
you can update all the attributes of a Bug via the WebServices. There
may be other good WebServices improvements which make 4.0, too.

Also, a great feature for installations that get a lot of bugs is the
new Automatic Duplicate Detection. To try it out, go to [file a bug on
our test
installation](http://landfill.bugzilla.org/bugzilla-tip/enter_bug.cgi?product=FoodReplicator),
type a few (real) words in to the Summary field, and then click out of
it.

We are also planning on changing the default statuses, based on our 12
years of experience since Bugzilla was first open-sourced. The current
status workflow is simple and broadly applicable, but it is ambiguous or
less-than-useful in some ways: for example, a NEW bug may not actually
be NEW--it's just not being worked on. And then what does ASSIGNED
really mean? Does it mean that somebody is working on the bug, or just
that it's been assigned to somebody (which you can already tell from the
Assigned To field)? So, to resolve these issues, the new workflow will
be even simpler: UNCONFIRMED -\> CONFIRMED -\> IN\_PROGRESS -\> RESOLVED
-\> VERIFIED. Installations that are upgrading will keep the old
workflow by default, although there will be a script included to convert
them to the new workflow, if they want.

### Features Already In 3.7.1

3.7.1 already has the new Search UI and the new Attachment Details UI,
although further improvements to the Search UI are coming in later
development releases. 3.7.1 also has automatic duplicate detection and
JSONP support for the JSON-RPC WebService.

Some of the other new features and changes in 3.7.1 are:

  - There is AJAX auto-completion of usernames in the CC, Assignee, and
    QA Contact boxes.
  - The First/Last/Next/Prev and the "Show my last search results" links
    at the top of a bug now work with multiple searches, so doing a new
    search won't "clobber" your old list.
  - Bug ID custom fields can now represent relationships, much like
    "Blocks/Depends On" do now.
  - You can now add Hours Worked to a bug without having to comment.
  - There are now calendar widgets on every date field in the UI.
  - The Voting system and the Bug Moving system have been moved into
    being extensions, and at some point will be maintained separately
    from the main Bugzilla codebase (though they still ship with
    Bugzilla, for now).
  - `email\_in.pl` now takes command-line
    arguments that allow you to specify defaults for field values, or
    override the field values specified in the incoming email.
  - Multi-select custom fields can now be columns on bug lists.
  - There is a new user preference for whether the "Additional Comment"
    box should show up before or after the existing comments.
  - In the code, there is a new function
    `$bug-\>set\_all`, which takes a bunch of
    arguments and updates a bug doing all the updates in the proper
    order, making it extremely easy for custom code to update bugs.
  - The `Bugzilla/Search.pm` file (which
    implements the searching logic in Bugzilla) has been majorly
    refactored to be much simpler to understand and customize.
  - When you do a quicksearch, the quicksearch boxes in the header and
    footer will contain your last search.
  - You can now restrict the values and visibility of custom fields by
    the value of the Component field.
  - Custom fields can now be marked as mandatory (that is, they must
    have a value).
  - The "fields.html" page now contains help for every single bug field
    in Bugzilla, and the fields display the help when you hover over
    their names, on `enter\_bug.cgi`.
  - There are a lot of great new code hooks, including ones for adding
    new columns and validators to objects, and another for modifying bug
    field permissions (so you can make certain fields read-only for
    certain users, using a hook).
  - Bugzilla can now be installed using Strawberry Perl, on Windows.
  - Comments are no longer manually word-wrapped at 80 columns before
    being sent to the browser--they are just word-wrapped in the
    browser.
  - Any time checksetup.pl throws an error, it will make it red to make
    it clearer.
  - YUI has been updated to 2.8.1, and Bugzilla now contains almost all
    of YUI, so all YUI features are available to customizers.

Do remember, though, that this is an **unstable** release. It may have
bugs. They might be really bad bugs. We have no idea, because we haven't
tested this release *at all*. If it pokes your best friend in the face
when you file a new bug, don't blame us--we warned you. :-)

### The Plan

Right now we expect the 4.0 release to happen some time around the end
of this year. To make this target, we'll definitely need help with
[QA](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:QA), so if you want to help out
with Bugzilla, see if you can find/fix some bugs in 3.7.1, and also if
you want, you can help out the [QA
Team](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:QA) write automated tests for
4.0\!
