---
title: Release of Bugzilla 3.0.11, 3.2.6, 3.4.5, and 3.5.3
date: 2010-02-01
author: ["mkanat"]
---
Okay\! So we've got [four
releases](http://www.bugzilla.org/news/#release345) today\! Bugzilla
3.4.5 is a bug-fix release, it's got some good bug fixes and small
improvements. Bugzilla 3.2.6 and 3.0.11 are only fixing a small security
issue. Everything released today has security fixes, some of them could
actually be important for your installation, depending on how you use
Bugzilla. The [Security
Advisory](http://www.bugzilla.org/security/3.0.10/) has details.

We also have a development release, 3.5.3. We're feature-frozen now,
which means that there won't be any major new features until 3.6 is
released, but there still are a lot of bug fixes that need to be done,
so it's not stable yet. Here are some of the new features since 3.5.2:

  - If your Bugzilla is behind a proxy, you can tell it to accept
    X-Forwarded-For as the end user's IP address, when the request comes
    from the proxy.
  - The "Required" parameters section now only lists actually required
    parameters. Other parameters have been moved to the "General" or
    "Advanced" section.
  - When installing Bugzilla, the "maintainer" parameter will
    automatically be set to the admin user you create during
    checksetup.pl.
  - "votestoconfirm" is now unrelated to the existence of the
    UNCONFIRMED status in a product. There is instead a checkbox to
    enable UNCONFIRMED.
  - QuickSearch has had a syntax overhaul to make it much simpler and
    also able to search more fields. Unfortunately, the documentation
    for this change didn't make it into 3.5.3, but it will be in 3.6 at
    the latest.
  - New WebService function: Bug.fields.
  - The show\_bug UI has had a few small changes.
  - The "milestoneurl" feature of a product has been removed.
  - The strings at the top of comments that say that you created or
    commented on an attachment are now localizable.
  - User accounts are now locked out on a particular IP for 30 minutes
    if they fail to log in 5 times from that IP.
  - There's a new "Browse" interface--it's actually just an updated
    interface to describecomponents.cgi, but it's linked from the
    toolbar as "Browse" now.
  - You can now add attachments to a bug when using email\_in.pl.
  - enter\_bug.cgi now indicates in the UI which fields are mandatory.
  - mod\_perl should be working on Windows now, though it hasn't
    received a lot of testing from us.
  - There's a whole awesome new Extensions system for Bugzilla (see
    below for more about that).

#### The New Bugzilla::Extension System

One of the biggest new things in 3.5.3 is the new Bugzilla::Extension
system, which is a complete overhaul of how extensions work. The new
extensions system is consistent, fast, and fully documented. It makes it
easy to create and distribute extensions. It's even possible to
distribute them via CPAN. And for people who were using the old system,
the new system comes with a script to do some automatic conversion of
older extensions.

If you want to know more about it, the [Bugzilla::Extension
documentation](http://www.bugzilla.org/docs/tip/en/html/api/Bugzilla/Extension.html)
contains everything you need to know to write an extension. And you can
get started quickly by using the `extensions/create.pl` script in
Bugzilla itself.

#### Moving to Bzr

Very soon, Bugzilla development will be moving away from CVS and onto
[Bazaar](http://bazaar.canonical.com/) (called "bzr" for short). CVS
will still continue to work as a read-only repository though, so you'll
still be able to update your installations and check out via CVS if you
want to. More details about bzr and how Bugzilla will use it will be
available after we switch.

#### The Road to Bugzilla 3.6

The next steps on the road to Bugzilla 3.6 are for us to finish working
on all the current
[blockers](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/buglist.cgi?quicksearch=flag%3Ablocking3.6%2B),
then to write some [QA scripts](http://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:QA) for
3.6, then to write the release notes, and then to do some release
candidates, and then to release\! The [Bugzilla
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=ih4fh7ks327mou7e3hifikokco%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/Los_Angeles)
has more detail on the current estimated dates of release candidates and
final release.

And that's it for the Bugzilla Update for this time\!
