---
title: Bugzilla 4.0 Has a New Default Status Workflow
date: 2010-07-06
author: ["mkanat"]
categories:
- Status
---
So, as of just a few minutes ago, the trunk Bugzilla code has a new
default status workflow that looks like this:

1.  UNCONFIRMED
2.  CONFIRMED
3.  IN\_PROGRESS
4.  RESOLVED
5.  VERIFIED

If you upgrade your installation to 4.0 (when it comes out), you will,
by default, keep the old workflow, whatever it was. This is okay, except
that there are now certain parts of Bugzilla (like, various pieces of
text and so on) that assume you are using the *new* workflow, and we
think the new workflow is much nicer, simpler, and clearer. So we've
also included a script that will convert the old default workflow into
the new default workflow, called `contrib/convert-workflow.pl`.
We recommend that everybody convert to the new workflow, if you can.

If you want to see the new workflow in action, check out the
[bugzilla-tip demo
installation](http://landfill.bugzilla.org/bugzilla-tip/).

#### Why Is There No NEW Status?

You might be asking yourself--why is there no "NEW" status in this new
workflow? Well, we think that the status workflow should tell you
something about the bug that the other fields *don't* tell you about the
bug. In particular, you can tell if a bug is new by looking at when the
bug was filed, how many comments there are, who the assignee is, etc. In
fact, in the past, a bug that had the "NEW" status may not have in fact
actually been NEW--it was just not being worked on.

We feel that CONFIRMED and UNCONFIRMED both actually describe something
more helpful about the bug and are more accurate than NEW.
