---
title: Bugzilla 4.1.1 Development Release
date: 2011-03-14
author: ["mkanat"]
---
Less than a month after our release of 4.0, we have our first
development snapshot, [Bugzilla
4.1.1](http://www.bugzilla.org/news/2011/03/13/release-of-bugzilla-4.1.1)
available for you\! This is our first release towards what will
eventually be 4.2, and it's got a bunch of new features. Here's a really
quick overview of what's new in 4.2:

  - Bugzilla now sends bugmail in both text and HTML.
  - You can disable component, milestone, and version values.
  - You can now create an attachment by pasting it into a text field.
  - If you are using a modern web browser, then after you update a bug,
    the URL in your web browser will be the URL to *view* the bug. (So,
    pressing refresh will simply let you see the bug, and not try to
    update it again. Also, if you have "session restore" in your
    browser, it will load the bug instead of an error page.)
  - Comments are no longer automatically word-wrapped by the server, but
    are instead word-wrapped in the browser. This means that they are no
    longer exactly 80 characters wide--they are now wider.
  - Tabular reports now look nicer and can be sorted.
  - There is a new link, (take) that appears next to the Assignee field
    and allows you to assign a bug to yourself.
  - Bugzilla can now run on SQLite as its database system. This is
    experimental and should not yet be used for production systems.
  - You can now say that a custom field should only appear when any of a
    *set* of values are set on another field. (So, for example, you
    could say that a single field appears in multiple products.)
  - You can now choose to optionally (as a user preference) not have
    Quicksearch search bug comments.
  - The default list of columns for search results is now more sensible.
  - Bugzilla now audits most changes to most things in the system, and
    stores this auditing information in a table in the database. There
    is not yet a UI into this table.
  - The system for deciding how and when to store attachments on the
    disk (instead of in the database) has been simplified.
  - long\_list.cgi, xml.cgi, and showattachment.cgi are gone. (They were
    not in use since a very old version of Bugzilla.) We also removed
    sidebar.cgi (the sidebar) because it wasn't in use and future
    versions of Firefox will not support it.
  - You can search for bugs based on the number of comments that they
    have.
  - Also, you can add "number of comments" as a column in your search
    results.
  - Boolean charts now work sensibly for almost all fields. For example,
    searching for "CC is not equal to" now finds bugs where that user is
    *not* CC'ed, instead of all bugs that have at least one CC who isn't
    that user. However, some of the old "magical" boolean chart
    functionality (such as searching for only attachment flags if you
    specify both a flag criterion and an attachment criterion) is
    temporarily missing while we redesign the search system.
  - By default, searches now only return 500 results. (You can click a
    link to see more.) Searches may also now *never* return more than
    10,000 results.
  - The "See Also" field now accepts many more types of URLs. It also
    accepts simple bug numbers to refer to a bug in your current
    Bugzilla. Adding a local bug number to the "see also" field will
    also cause that bug's "See Also" to point to this bug.
  - If you only have the "editcomponents" privilege for one or more
    products, you can now manage Flags for those products.
  - You can now specify "limit" and "offset" as URL parameters for all
    searches. These work much like their similar SQL equivalents.
  - You can now require a certain level of password complexity for your
    users.
  - When you run checksetup.pl to create a new Bugzilla database, it
    will print out *far* less information than it used to.
  - Almost all of the important information that checksetup.pl prints
    out can now be localized.
  - There is now a specific directory in `bz\_locations`
    (in Bugzilla::Constants) for where the pre-compiled templates are
    stored, that can be customized.
  - This release contains an initial implementation of a new tags
    system. The new UI for this tags system has not yet been
    implemented.
  - There is now a special group for moderating quips, so you don't have
    to be an admin.
  - Bugzilla can now automatically detect the correct encoding for text
    attachments that aren't in UTF-8.

Those are most of the major new changes that are in 4.1.1 over 4.0. We
also have [many other
features](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/buglist.cgi?bug_severity=enhancement&resolution=---&query_format=advanced&product=Bugzilla&target_milestone=Bugzilla%204.2)
planned for 4.2.

We hope that you enjoy testing Bugzilla 4.1.1 and we would love to hear
your feedback, both on how the new features work and any bugs that you
may find\!
