---
title: Winner of the "Make Bugzilla Pretty" Contest
date: 2011-03-31
author: ["mkanat"]
categories:
- Updates
---
All the votes are in for the "Make Bugzilla Pretty" contest, and we have
a winner\!

First off, let me say that every single entry was amazing. Every single
person who entered had innovative ideas, and nearly every entry was
prettier than our current UI.

There were four candidates who were mentioned in some positive way by
almost every voter:

  - [Long Duong](http://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Pretty#Long_Duong)
  - [Jonathan
    Wilde](http://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Pretty#Jonathan_Wilde)
  - [Alex Faaborg](http://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Pretty#Alex_Faaborg)
  - [Zeeshan Syed](http://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Pretty#Zeeshan_Syed)

Any of these designers would be a worthwhile addition to any UX team
anywhere. Simply the ability to take Bugzilla's existing UI and turn it
into something that nearly everybody finds *attractive* is an
accomplishment that few designers could achieve. In the 13 years of
Bugzilla's history, I've never seen it done before these entries. I
would be personally happy to write a recommendation for any of the above
designers, and they may contact me for that if they wish.

Let's just say a few words about each of these designs:

#### Alex Faaborg

There were a ton of positive comments on the usability aspects and
organization of [Alex Faaborg's \[Bracket\]
theme](http://mzl.la/bracketTheme), particularly some of the new fields
suggested and the brilliant use of color to improve the scanability of
the page. It was impressive that everything on the page is basically
text or lines, and yet it creates a very readable, clean, simple layout.

We expect future versions of Bugzilla to draw a lot on the usability
concepts present in Faaborg's design, even though it is not the
first-place winner.

#### Zeeshan Syed

There were a lot of positive comments on the use of space in [Zeeshan
Syed's design](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Pretty#Zeeshan_Syed).
The color contrast really makes things readable, the tab navigation is
very clear, and the section titles really stand out.

#### Long Duong

Voters were almost overwhelmingly positive about [Long Duong's
design](https://wiki.mozilla.org/images/b/bb/Bugzilla-Design-lduong-V3.jpg).
Many people mentioned that they liked the clean lines and very
"Bugzilla" feel of the bug page, and that the collapsible sections were
a great touch while still being visually appealing. There was also a lot
of positive feedback about the header design--people really loved its
organization and style. Finally, the [home page
design](https://wiki.mozilla.org/File:Bugzilla-Intro-Design-lduong.jpg)
was just really cool.

Based on the number of votes and the general amount of positive
feedback, Duong is our first runner-up for the Make Bugzilla Pretty
contest, and it is very likely that we will end up incorporating some of
his UI concepts into our final design.

#### Jonathan Wilde

This was a stiff competition, and all of the above designs would have
worked great as our new UI. However, the winner of the "Make Bugzilla
Pretty" contest, and indeed the recipient of the *majority* of votes, is
[Jonathan Wilde](http://speedbreeze.com/):

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/jwilde-bugzillapretty-bug-27-2-2011.png)
"Jonathan Wilde's Winning Design"

Jonathan's ability to convert our UI into something beautiful and simple
that even new users will find approachable is beyond anything that we
had ever imagined could be done with Bugzilla. We are thrilled that
Jonathan has won, and excited to implement his design as the official UI
of Bugzilla 5.0.

#### Thanks to Everybody

We would like to thank everybody who entered. Your entries made this
contest a fascinating and transformative experience for the Bugzilla
Project. We were consistently amazed at the creativity, intelligence,
and design sense that so many of you displayed, and wish you great
fortune in the future of your careers.
