---
title: Bugzilla Project Meeting Wednesday, July 17th, at 14:00 UTC
date: 2013-07-12
author: ["justdave"]
categories:
- Updates
---
Much of this post is taken from a message I posted to the developers
list a few days ago, so my apologies in advance to anyone reading it
again. I've expanded on a few things and added the information about the
upcoming meeting, so it's probably worth re-reading.

For those unaware of the context, Frédéric Buclin last week announced
that he was [stepping down from his Assistant Project
Manager](http://lpsolit.wordpress.com/2013/07/08/its-time-for-me-to-leave-the-bugzilla-project/)
position after 9 years.

To Frédéric: Thanks again (and again\!) for all your hard work over the
years\! As stretched as I've been for time myself it has been a true
godsend to have you picking up my slack the last few years. You will be
missed\!

To everyone else: For the time being, I'll be handling approval
requests, so if you have something up for approval and it's not getting
attention, I'm the one to pester.

This is sort of the end of an era for the Bugzilla project... Both
Frédéric and Max (who left to work at Google a couple years ago and
[stepped down from his position earlier this
year](https://lists.bugzilla.org/cgi-bin/mj_wwwusr?user=user%40host.com&list=developers&func=archive-get-part&extra=201211/3)
for lack of time) have been with the project for much longer than most
people ever stick with a single employer in IT-related jobs (of which an
open source project of this magnitude has a lot of similarities). For an
open source project, that's outright amazing, as people tend to come and
go a lot in most projects. It's kind of surprising that I've been around
longer than them, but I'm kind of a "lifer" in some ways, and in reality
I've had a good break from the project for the last few years because
Max and Frédéric have been mostly taking care of everything while I've
been busy with other things.

So it's time to begin a new era. Since I've had a good break to clear
the monotony I'm going to be trying to get more involved myself again
(which I've been saying ever since Max left, but I have a lot more
incentive now). I'd also like to kickstart a new team to lead the
project, and kind of re-organize if you will. We have a number of
positions within the project for various functions, which we've never
really paid attention to as people moved on. So some questions we'll be
asking at our upcoming meeting are:

  - What positions in our existing structure do we have open?
  - Do we still need them all?
  - Are there new positions we have a need for that we should create?
  - Who should fill them?
  - Do the existing holders of positions that we still need and haven't
    been vacated want to keep doing them?

We also have some other "reinventing the project" type topics while
we're at it. There's a number of things we've been talking about doing
for a long time that we never really moved on, and some of the big
elusive dreams (the big UI overhaul\!) have actually been making
progress as well, lately. When we're in the middle of big changes like
this, I think it's a good time to review where we are, get everyone on
the same page, and tackle some of these things we keep talking about.

We also have a lot of new useful technology at our disposal since the
last time we had a project meeting. We're going to experiment with using
Google Hangouts for the meeting this time, and using their feature to
stream the Hangout via YouTube for those who want to watch without
participating. We'll also keep our usual meeting IRC channel open so
people who don't have a Google+ account and don't want to get one can
still participate and ask questions via IRC.

The preliminary agenda and participation instructions have been posted
at <https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Meetings>. The meeting will be
held on Wednesday, July 17th, at 14:00 UTC. And before anyone complains
about the time, this was the best time to avoid inconveniencing the
largest number of people. The Bugzilla Project has a global pool of
contributors, and we have active contributors in a wide variety of time
zones. The time chosen puts the meeting in the middle of the night for
the fewest number of people. Those on the west coast in the US will
probably have to get up a little early, and those in eastern Australia
will be up a little later.

A lot of the emails and comments I've gotten since Frédéric's
announcement have been really positive, so I'm encouraged by the number
of people who are still committed to keeping Bugzilla vibrant\! We'll
see you at the meeting on Wednesday\!
