---
title: Bugzilla 4.2 will be EOL on 2015/11/30
date: 2015-07-29
author: ["mcote"]
categories:
- Updates
---
As discussed on the Bugzilla [developers mailing
list/newsgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#%21topic/mozilla.dev.apps.bugzilla/vBGTf7SvOWg)
and confirmed by project leads, Bugzilla's new release policy is to
end-of-life the oldest supported major version four months after a new
major release. Since this is the first time we're enacting this policy,
we've extended the date to be 4 months from today rather than from
Bugzilla 5.0's exact release date (July 7th).

Thus Bugzilla 4.2 will be end-of-lifed on 30 November 2015. This means
no fixes of any kind will be issued for Bugzilla 4.2 from that date
onwards. As usual, all Bugzilla admins are encouraged to
[upgrade](https://bugzilla.readthedocs.org/en/5.0/installing/upgrading.html)
to the latest version of Bugzilla as soon as possible, especially those
running 4.2 or earlier.

To expand a bit further on our new EOL process, after a new major
release, we will support three major releases (including the new one)
for four months.  After four months, we will drop support for the oldest
one.  We will continue to support the remaining two until four months
after the next release.

For example, currently we support 4.2, 4.4, and 5.0.  In four months'
time we will drop support for 4.2 and support only 4.4 and 5.0.  When
the next major version comes out, perhaps 5.2[^1], we will
support 4.4, 5.0, and 5.2.  Four months later, we will drop support for
4.4 and support only 5.0 and 5.2.

Mark Côté  
Assistant Project Lead, Bugzilla

[^1]: It may be 6.0 if there are major and/or breaking changes.
