contributing/funding.md, before:

---
title: "Funding"
redirect_from:
- /funding/
- /donate/
- /donations/
- /give/
addons:
- type: css
  link: /assets/css/funding.css
---

<h2>What Bugzilla Spends Money On</h2>

<p>All monetary amounts listed on this page are in US Dollars (USD).</p>
<p>Amounts last updated 2023/09/08.</p>

<h3>One Time Expenses</h3>

<p>Zarro Boogs Corporation was just recently formed by a group of the core
Bugzilla Developers in order to have a legal entity which could hold the
license to the Bugzilla trademark and potentially pay one or more developers.
We incured the following costs in setting up this entity:</p>

<ul>
<li><strong>$1500.00</strong> - Legal fees related to researching the proper
structure for the new company, creating the founding documents to make the
company legit, and registering it with the State of Michigan</li>
<li><strong>$50.00</strong> - Filing fee to apply for §501(c)(4) status from
the US Internal Revenue Service</li>
<li><strong>$1700.00</strong> - Legal fees to cover lawyer time during
negotiations with the Mozilla Foundation to obtain the license to use the
Bugzilla trademark</li>
<li><strong>$400.00</strong> - year-to-date hosting costs for two servers in
Linode (January to March at $45 (x3 = $135), April to August at $53 (x5 =
$265)) paid before we had a way to collect donations.</li>
</ul>

<h4>Payoff Progress</h4>

<p>Funded by one-time donations.</p>
<div class="fundprogress">
<span class="fundprogressbar_current">$130</span>
<progress class="fundprogressbar" max="3650" value="130"></progress>
<span class="fundprogressbar_total">$3650</span>
</div>

<p>
<a href="https://github.com/sponsors/bugzilla" class="button primary">Contribute</a> towards this goal at GitHub Sponsors (GitHub account required).
</p>
<p>
<a href="https://donate.stripe.com/eVadTl5xa53RcIEeUV" class="button primary">Contribute</a> towards this goal via Stripe (credit, debit, Apple Pay, CashApp). Stripe will deduct 2.9% + 30¢ from your contribution as a transaction fee.
</p>

<h3>Ongoing Necessary Expenses</h3>

<ul>
<li><strong>$53.00 per month</strong> - Server Hosting: 2 servers in Linode.</li>
<li><strong>$20.00 per year</strong> - State of Michigan Non-profit filing fee. (÷12 = $1.67 per month)</li>
</ul>

<p>Funded by recurring donations.</p>

<div class="fundprogress">
<span class="fundprogressbar_current">$5</span>
<progress class="fundprogressbar" max="5508" value="500"></progress>
<span class="fundprogressbar_total">$55</span>
</div>

<p>
<a href="https://github.com/sponsors/bugzilla" class="button primary">Sponsor Us</a> with a monthly contribution towards this goal at GitHub Sponsors (GitHub account required).
<p>

<p>
<a href="https://liberapay.com/bugzilla/" class="button primary">Sponsor Us</a> with a monthly contribution towards this goal at Liberapay using any payment type Stripe will accept (credit, debit, etc). Stripe will deduct 2.9% + 30¢ from your contribution each month as a transaction fee.
<p>

<h3>Ongoing "Nice to have" expenses</h3>

<h4>General project fund</h4>

<p>Any money received beyond the goals listed above will go into a pool to be
used towards hiring a developer to work on code or review submitted patches for
one-off projects. Once enough money collects to be worth funding a project,
we'll have someone work on it.</p>

<p>Current accumulated unspent balance of one-time and recurring donations
exceeding the above goals:</p>
<div class="fundprogress"><span class="fundprogressbar_current">$0</span></div>

<h4>Permanent developer</h4>

<p>Our pie-in-the-sky goal right now is to have a permanent part-time developer
to work around 20 hours per per week on Bugzilla on whatever needs doing, and
not just one-off projects. To do this, we anticipate needing about $4000 per
month in recurring donations.</p>

<p>Single-month recurring donations exceeding the above necessary expenses:</p>

<div class="fundprogress">
<span class="fundprogressbar_current">$0</span>
<progress class="fundprogressbar" max="4000" value="0"></progress>
<span class="fundprogressbar_total">$4000</span>
</div>

<p>Once this goal is met, this amount will no longer be included in the general project fund.</p>

<h2>Why Bugzilla Needs Money Now</h2>

<p>Historically, most of Bugzilla's development was done by coders who worked
at companies who used Bugzilla, where those companies allowed them to spend
time working on the public version of Bugzilla since it got their features
included in future Bugzilla versions without them having to locally customize
it.</p>

<p>Sadly, this is no longer the case. In the name of immediate productivity,
companies get the quickest results by customizing their local copy only for
their own use, and not taking the time to contribute those changes to the
public version. Being able to upgrade it down the line without losing their
customizations is "someone else's problem in the future." (Incidentally, we'd
love your help if you're a company that uses Bugzilla and can let one of your
internal developers spend a couple hours per week on Bugzilla!)</p>

<p>Because Bugzilla is now in this position, we are trying to raise enough
money to directly pay at least one developer, so that it will actually be
someone's job to work on Bugzilla, at least part time. That is our
pie-in-the-sky goal.</p>

<h2>The Legal Stuff</h2>

<p>In mid-2023, a group of the core developers formed Zarro Boogs Corporation
(ZBC) in order to be a legal entity which could hold the license to the
Bugzilla Trademark and raise money on behalf of the project. ZBC is a
non-charitable non-profit organization (US Tax Code §501(c)(4) status pending
IRS approval), and registered as a Non-Profit Corporation in the State of
Michigan, which means we are required to spend all money raised on the needs of
the project, and not make a profit on it. However, since we are not a charity,
your donations will not be tax deductible. The Bugzilla trademarks are used
under license from the Mozilla Foundation. ZBC is not affiliated with the
Mozilla Foundation.</p>

Commit message:

explain general fund will be used to pay initial one-time expenses

contributing/funding.md, after:

---
title: "Funding"
redirect_from:
- /funding/
- /donate/
- /donations/
- /give/
addons:
- type: css
  link: /assets/css/funding.css
---

<h2>What Bugzilla Spends Money On</h2>

<p>All monetary amounts listed on this page are in US Dollars (USD).</p>
<p>Amounts last updated 2023/09/08.</p>

<h3>One Time Expenses</h3>

<p>Zarro Boogs Corporation was just recently formed by a group of the core
Bugzilla Developers in order to have a legal entity which could hold the
license to the Bugzilla trademark and potentially pay one or more developers.
We incured the following costs in setting up this entity:</p>

<ul>
<li><strong>$1500.00</strong> - Legal fees related to researching the proper
structure for the new company, creating the founding documents to make the
company legit, and registering it with the State of Michigan</li>
<li><strong>$50.00</strong> - Filing fee to apply for §501(c)(4) status from
the US Internal Revenue Service</li>
<li><strong>$1700.00</strong> - Legal fees to cover lawyer time during
negotiations with the Mozilla Foundation to obtain the license to use the
Bugzilla trademark</li>
<li><strong>$400.00</strong> - year-to-date hosting costs for two servers in
Linode (January to March at $45 (x3 = $135), April to August at $53 (x5 =
$265)) paid before we had a way to collect donations.</li>
</ul>

<h4>Payoff Progress</h4>

<p>Funded by one-time donations.</p>
<div class="fundprogress">
<span class="fundprogressbar_current">$130</span>
<progress class="fundprogressbar" max="3650" value="130"></progress>
<span class="fundprogressbar_total">$3650</span>
</div>

<p>
<a href="https://github.com/sponsors/bugzilla" class="button primary">Contribute</a> towards this goal at GitHub Sponsors (GitHub account required).
</p>
<p>
<a href="https://donate.stripe.com/eVadTl5xa53RcIEeUV" class="button primary">Contribute</a> towards this goal via Stripe (credit, debit, Apple Pay, CashApp). Stripe will deduct 2.9% + 30¢ from your contribution as a transaction fee.
</p>

<h3>Ongoing Necessary Expenses</h3>

<ul>
<li><strong>$53.00 per month</strong> - Server Hosting: 2 servers in Linode.</li>
<li><strong>$20.00 per year</strong> - State of Michigan Non-profit filing fee. (÷12 = $1.67 per month)</li>
</ul>

<p>Funded by recurring donations.</p>

<div class="fundprogress">
<span class="fundprogressbar_current">$5</span>
<progress class="fundprogressbar" max="5508" value="500"></progress>
<span class="fundprogressbar_total">$55</span>
</div>

<p>
<a href="https://github.com/sponsors/bugzilla" class="button primary">Sponsor Us</a> with a monthly contribution towards this goal at GitHub Sponsors (GitHub account required).
<p>

<p>
<a href="https://liberapay.com/bugzilla/" class="button primary">Sponsor Us</a> with a monthly contribution towards this goal at Liberapay using any payment type Stripe will accept (credit, debit, etc). Stripe will deduct 2.9% + 30¢ from your contribution each month as a transaction fee.
<p>

<h3>Ongoing "Nice to have" expenses</h3>

<h4>General project fund</h4>

<p>Any money received beyond the goals listed above will go into a pool to be
used towards hiring a developer to work on code or review submitted patches for
one-off projects. Once enough money collects to be worth funding a project,
we'll have someone work on it. Recurring donations that exceed the monthly
necessities goal will be contributed to the one-time expenses pay-off fund
first before being placed here, until those expenses are paid off.</p>

<p>Current accumulated unspent balance of one-time and recurring donations
exceeding the above goals:</p>
<div class="fundprogress"><span class="fundprogressbar_current">$0</span></div>

<h4>Permanent developer</h4>

<p>Our pie-in-the-sky goal right now is to have a permanent part-time developer
to work around 20 hours per per week on Bugzilla on whatever needs doing, and
not just one-off projects. To do this, we anticipate needing about $4000 per
month in recurring donations.</p>

<p>Single-month recurring donations exceeding the above necessary expenses:</p>

<div class="fundprogress">
<span class="fundprogressbar_current">$0</span>
<progress class="fundprogressbar" max="4000" value="0"></progress>
<span class="fundprogressbar_total">$4000</span>
</div>

<p>Once this goal is met, this amount will no longer be included in the general project fund.</p>

<h2>Why Bugzilla Needs Money Now</h2>

<p>Historically, most of Bugzilla's development was done by coders who worked
at companies who used Bugzilla, where those companies allowed them to spend
time working on the public version of Bugzilla since it got their features
included in future Bugzilla versions without them having to locally customize
it.</p>

<p>Sadly, this is no longer the case. In the name of immediate productivity,
companies get the quickest results by customizing their local copy only for
their own use, and not taking the time to contribute those changes to the
public version. Being able to upgrade it down the line without losing their
customizations is "someone else's problem in the future." (Incidentally, we'd
love your help if you're a company that uses Bugzilla and can let one of your
internal developers spend a couple hours per week on Bugzilla!)</p>

<p>Because Bugzilla is now in this position, we are trying to raise enough
money to directly pay at least one developer, so that it will actually be
someone's job to work on Bugzilla, at least part time. That is our
pie-in-the-sky goal.</p>

<h2>The Legal Stuff</h2>

<p>In mid-2023, a group of the core developers formed Zarro Boogs Corporation
(ZBC) in order to be a legal entity which could hold the license to the
Bugzilla Trademark and raise money on behalf of the project. ZBC is a
non-charitable non-profit organization (US Tax Code §501(c)(4) status pending
IRS approval), and registered as a Non-Profit Corporation in the State of
Michigan, which means we are required to spend all money raised on the needs of
the project, and not make a profit on it. However, since we are not a charity,
your donations will not be tax deductible. The Bugzilla trademarks are used
under license from the Mozilla Foundation. ZBC is not affiliated with the
Mozilla Foundation.</p>
