contributing/index.md, before:

---
title: "Contributing"
redirect_from:
- /developers/
- /contribute/
---

* this stub should be replaced by :toc below
{:toc}

## Ways to Contribute

There are lots of ways to contribute to the Bugzilla project:

*   **Money**: You can donate money to help cover our server hosting costs and pay for developer and code reviewer time.
    [See how you can contribute money to Bugzilla, and what the money gets spent on](/donate).
*   **Sponsored Development**: If you are a business that uses Bugzilla and has a staff person responsible for maintaining your Bugzilla installation, and that person is willing, please consider allowing them to spend a few hours per week on company time contributing in one of the other categories on this page to Bugzilla. In the past, this was Bugzilla's primary means of contribution.
*   **Code**: You can [contribute to the Bugzilla codebase](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Developers) if you are familiar with Perl or features Bugzilla has/wants, such as DB, WebServices, etc. See also: [Developer's Guide](/contributing/developer)
*   **Web Development and User Interface Design**: [contribute to the Bugzilla UI](/contributing/developer) if you are a designer and/or are good at HTML and/or CSS.
*   **Documentation**: You can [contribute to the Bugzilla Documentation](http://bugzilla.readthedocs.org/en/latest/style.html) if you are familiar with Bugzilla as an administrator or as a user, or good at English.
*   **Release Process**: You can [help with the release process](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Release_Process) if you have some time to give us.
*   **QA**: You can [help with the QA process](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:QA) if you are familiar with Bugzilla as an administrator or as a user, and have some time.
*   **Support**: Bugzilla is community-supported. If you're an old hand at using or administering Bugzilla, hang out in our [support venues](/support/) such as our support mailing list or chat rooms and help other users.
*   **Translation**: You can [help to translate templates and/or documentation](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:L10n:Guide) if you are good at English and other languages.

## Guides

  - [**How to Contribute to
    Bugzilla**](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Developers)
  - [Developers' Guide](/contributing/developer)
  - [List of Reviewers](/contributing/reviewer-list)
  - [Reviewers' Guide](/contributing/reviewer)
  - [Approvers' Guide](/contributing/approver)
  - [Localizers'
    Guide](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:L10n:Guide)
  - [Documentor's
    Guide](http://bugzilla.readthedocs.org/en/latest/style.html)
  - [Release Noting Guide](/contributing/releasenote)
  - [How To Release a Bugzilla
    Version](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Release_Process)
  - [The Bugzilla API Documentation](https://bugzilla.readthedocs.io/en/5.0/api/)
  - [How to Report a Bug](/contributing/reporting_bugs)

## SQL References

  - [MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/)
  - [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/documentation/)
  - [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/)
  - [Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/appdev/sql.html)
  - [ANSI SQL](https://ronsavage.github.io/SQL/) (Bugzilla attempts to conform
    to SQL-99, when possible).

## Mailing List

**[developers@bugzilla.org](https://lists.bugzilla.org/listinfo/developers)**
- This mailing list is for discussion among people who are assisting
with the development of Bugzilla. Discussion on this list tends to get
quite technical. If you're interested in contributing code to Bugzilla,
you should subscribe to this list. [Browse Archives](https://lists.bugzilla.org/pipermail/developers)

## IRC

Much Bugzilla development discussion happens in real time on IRC. We
hang out on the [\#bugzilla](ircs://irc.libera.chat/#bugzilla) channel
on libera.chat. Feel free to drop in there anytime to discuss Bugzilla
(both development and support discussion happens there).

The easiest way to get on IRC is to use the [Kiwi web IRC
client](https://web.libera.chat/#/#bugzilla), which
lets you chat with us through your browser, without installing anything.

Commit message:

modernize chat room section on Contribute page

contributing/index.md, after:

---
title: "Contributing"
redirect_from:
- /developers/
- /contribute/
---

* this stub should be replaced by :toc below
{:toc}

## Ways to Contribute

There are lots of ways to contribute to the Bugzilla project:

*   **Money**: You can donate money to help cover our server hosting costs and pay for developer and code reviewer time.
    [See how you can contribute money to Bugzilla, and what the money gets spent on](/donate).
*   **Sponsored Development**: If you are a business that uses Bugzilla and has a staff person responsible for maintaining your Bugzilla installation, and that person is willing, please consider allowing them to spend a few hours per week on company time contributing in one of the other categories on this page to Bugzilla. In the past, this was Bugzilla's primary means of contribution.
*   **Code**: You can [contribute to the Bugzilla codebase](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Developers) if you are familiar with Perl or features Bugzilla has/wants, such as DB, WebServices, etc. See also: [Developer's Guide](/contributing/developer)
*   **Web Development and User Interface Design**: [contribute to the Bugzilla UI](/contributing/developer) if you are a designer and/or are good at HTML and/or CSS.
*   **Documentation**: You can [contribute to the Bugzilla Documentation](http://bugzilla.readthedocs.org/en/latest/style.html) if you are familiar with Bugzilla as an administrator or as a user, or good at English.
*   **Release Process**: You can [help with the release process](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Release_Process) if you have some time to give us.
*   **QA**: You can [help with the QA process](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:QA) if you are familiar with Bugzilla as an administrator or as a user, and have some time.
*   **Support**: Bugzilla is community-supported. If you're an old hand at using or administering Bugzilla, hang out in our [support venues](/support/) such as our support mailing list or chat rooms and help other users.
*   **Translation**: You can [help to translate templates and/or documentation](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:L10n:Guide) if you are good at English and other languages.

## Guides

  - [**How to Contribute to
    Bugzilla**](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Developers)
  - [Developers' Guide](/contributing/developer)
  - [List of Reviewers](/contributing/reviewer-list)
  - [Reviewers' Guide](/contributing/reviewer)
  - [Approvers' Guide](/contributing/approver)
  - [Localizers'
    Guide](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:L10n:Guide)
  - [Documentor's
    Guide](http://bugzilla.readthedocs.org/en/latest/style.html)
  - [Release Noting Guide](/contributing/releasenote)
  - [How To Release a Bugzilla
    Version](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Bugzilla:Release_Process)
  - [The Bugzilla API Documentation](https://bugzilla.readthedocs.io/en/5.0/api/)
  - [How to Report a Bug](/contributing/reporting_bugs)

## SQL References

  - [MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/)
  - [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/documentation/)
  - [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/)
  - [Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/appdev/sql.html)
  - [ANSI SQL](https://ronsavage.github.io/SQL/) (Bugzilla attempts to conform
    to SQL-99, when possible).

## Mailing List

**[developers@bugzilla.org](https://lists.bugzilla.org/listinfo/developers)**
- This mailing list is for discussion among people who are assisting
with the development of Bugzilla. Discussion on this list tends to get
quite technical. If you're interested in contributing code to Bugzilla,
you should subscribe to this list. [Browse Archives](https://lists.bugzilla.org/pipermail/developers)

## Chat rooms

**NOTE: The chat rooms listed here are for development work. If you
need help installing, administering, or using Bugzilla, please see
the chat rooms listed on the [Support page](/support).**

Much Bugzilla development discussion happens in real time in the online chat
rooms.  Normally, all three of these are mirrored to each other, so you can
chat on any of them and people will see it on all three.  At the moment, the
bridge is broken so they can't see each other. You can still pick your favorite
way to access, and there are a few people who are watching all three of them.
However, without the bridge in place, the bulk of development discussion
happens on Discord these days.

  - **#development on [Bugzilla Discord](https://discord.gg/ZhN6uBA)**
  - **[#bugzilla:mozilla.org](https://matrix.to/#/#bugzilla:mozilla.org)**
    on Matrix
  - **[#bugzilla](https://web.libera.chat/#bugzilla)** on Libera.chat
